
@c This file is obtained by adding some texinfo commands to
@c the README file.

The pycodes package provides various extensions to Python
which are useful in developing and analyzing error correcting
codes and data compression codes.

@section Prerequisites

You will need the following installed on your system to use all
of the pycodes features:

@itemize @bullet

@item Python (preferably version 2.2 or later) (@uref{http://www.python.org})

@item biggles (optional; only required if you want plotting) (@uref{http://biggles.sourceforge.net})

@item GLPK (optinal; only required if you want to do LP relaxations) (@uref{http://www.gnu.org/software/glpk/glpk.html})
  
@end itemize 

@section Installing
@cindex Installing

The following procedure is required to use the main iterative coding
and decoding routines.  If you just want to use things in the utils
directory, you do not need to compile anything.

Edit the file setup.py to edit installation options (e.g., if you want
to compile in debug mode or optimization mode.  Then, in this
directory, execute the command

@example
$ python setup.py install
@end example

to compile the required python extensions and install them globally.  

After the installation completes, you can use pycodes just like 
any other python module.  For example, to run the regression tests
you could start python and do

@example
>>> import pycodes, pycodes.tests
>>> pycodes.tests.DoRegressionTests()
@end example

If you don't want to globally install pycodes, you can just compile
it in place and use it as a local python module.  To do this,
uncomment the lines for [build_ext] in setup.cfg and do

@example
$ python setup.py build
@end example

to compile everything.  Make sure that the name of the directory
containing the pycodes module is named @samp{pycodes} and not
something like @samp{pycodes-1.0}.  To use pycodes, start python in
the directory containing the @samp{pycodes} directory.  For example,
to run the regression tests you could do

@example
$ python
>>> import pycodes, pycodes.tests
>>> pycodes.tests.DoRegressionTests()
@end example



